docs/config.md, before:

<br>

# Configuration

uv-ship reads user defined settings from a `[tool.uv-ship]` table in a toml file. By default, it will look for such a table in either `uv-ship.toml` or `pyproject.toml` in your project root. Optionally, you can use the `--config` flag to point to a custom file.

??? quote "the config source is reported every time you invoke `uv-ship`"

    ``` console hl_lines="4"
    $ uv-ship

    uv-ship - a CLI-tool for shipping with uv
    config source: "pyproject.toml"
    ```

:material-arrow-right-thin: If no config is provided, uv-ship will fall back to its [default settings](#available-settings).

## Example Configuration
```toml
# pyproject.toml
[tool.uv-ship]
release-branch = "main"
tag-prefix = "v"
allow-dirty = false
changelog-path = "CHANGELOG"
changelog-template = "- {message} [{hash}]"
```

!!! note
    If both `uv-ship.toml` and `pyproject.toml` contain a `[tool.uv-ship]` table, the CLI aborts to avoid ambiguous settings.

<br>

## Available Settings

---

### `release-branch`
_string_ | _bool_  : <span class="acc-2-code">`"main"`</span>

Defines the branch that must be checked out before shipping.
Set to `false` to disable this check.


### `tag-prefix`
_string_  : <span class="acc-2-code">`"v"`</span>

Prefix added to the Git tag (e.g. `1.6.2` becomes `v1.6.2`).


### `allow-dirty`
_bool_  : <span class="acc-2-code">`false`</span>

Allow preflight checks to pass despite uncommitted changes.
You can override per-run with `--dirty`


### `changelog-path`
_string_  : <span class="acc-2-code">`"CHANGELOG"`</span>

Relative path to the changelog file that the changelog feature reads and refreshes.

### `changelog-template`
_string_  : <span class="acc-2-code">`"- {message} [{commit_ref}]"`</span>

Template used when rendering commit entries in the changelog preview.  
The tokens below are supported placeholders:

- `{message}` – the commit subject line.
- `{commit_ref}` – a Markdown link to the commit
- `{commit_hash}`/`{hash}` – the short commit hash.
- `{repo_url}` – the base commit URL 

If uv-ship cannot resolve the repo_url it will fall back to commit hash instead.  
(applies to `commit_ref` and `repo_url` tokens)

The default produces following format:
> - feat: add changelog template [[c505b40](https://github.com/floRaths/uv-ship/commit/c505b40)]

### `repo-url`
_string_  : <span class="acc-2-code">`""`</span>

Option for overriding the repository URL in case it is a private (eg: self-hosted organization repositories)


### `commit-message`
_string_  : <span class="acc-2-code">`"new version {old_ver} → {new_ver}"`</span>

Template for the commit message that is generated. It accepts two optional tokens, `{old_ver}` and `{new_ver}`, which will represent the package version before and after uv-ship completes, respectively.

For example, this is a message generated by the default setting:  
> new version 1.6.2 → 1.7.0


### `dry-run`
_bool_  : <span class="acc-2-code">`false`</span>

Force all commands into dry-run mode. May be convenient when testing the tool, but can't be overridden in in the CLI and thus needs to be set to `false` for operation.

Commit message:

feat: support for "[Unreleased]" sections in the changelog
[#6](https://github.com/floRaths/uv-ship/issues/6)

docs/config.md, after:

<br>

# Configuration

uv-ship reads user defined settings from a `[tool.uv-ship]` table in a toml file. By default, it will look for such a table in either `uv-ship.toml` or `pyproject.toml` in your project root. Optionally, you can use the `--config` flag to point to a custom file.

??? quote "the config source is reported every time you invoke `uv-ship`"

    ``` console hl_lines="4"
    $ uv-ship

    uv-ship - a CLI-tool for shipping with uv
    config source: "pyproject.toml"
    ```

:material-arrow-right-thin: If no config is provided, uv-ship will fall back to its [default settings](#available-settings).

## Example Configuration
```toml
# pyproject.toml
[tool.uv-ship]
release-branch = "main"
tag-prefix = "v"
allow-dirty = false
changelog-path = "CHANGELOG"
changelog-template = "- {message} [{hash}]"
```

!!! note
    If both `uv-ship.toml` and `pyproject.toml` contain a `[tool.uv-ship]` table, the CLI aborts to avoid ambiguous settings.

<br>

## Available Settings

---

### `release-branch`
_string_ | _bool_  : <span class="acc-2-code">`"main"`</span>

Defines the branch that must be checked out before shipping.
Set to `false` to disable this check.


### `tag-prefix`
_string_  : <span class="acc-2-code">`"v"`</span>

Prefix added to the Git tag (e.g. `1.6.2` becomes `v1.6.2`).


### `allow-dirty`
_bool_  : <span class="acc-2-code">`false`</span>

Allow preflight checks to pass despite uncommitted changes.
You can override per-run with `--dirty`


### `changelog-path`
_string_  : <span class="acc-2-code">`"CHANGELOG"`</span>

Relative path to the changelog file that the changelog feature reads and refreshes.

### `changelog-template`
_string_  : <span class="acc-2-code">`"- {message} [{commit_ref}]"`</span>

Template used when rendering commit entries in the changelog preview.  
The tokens below are supported placeholders:

- `{message}` – the commit subject line.
- `{commit_ref}` – a Markdown link to the commit
- `{commit_hash}`/`{hash}` – the short commit hash.
- `{repo_url}` – the base commit URL 

If uv-ship cannot resolve the repo_url it will fall back to commit hash instead.  
(applies to `commit_ref` and `repo_url` tokens)

The default produces following format:
> - feat: add changelog template [[c505b40](https://github.com/floRaths/uv-ship/commit/c505b40)]

### `unreleased-tag`
_string_  : <span class="acc-2-code">`"[unreleased]"`</span>

The default tag used by `uv-ship log` for all commits since the latest tag.


### `repo-url`
_string_  : <span class="acc-2-code">`""`</span>

Option for overriding the repository URL in case it is a private (eg: self-hosted organization repositories)


### `commit-message`
_string_  : <span class="acc-2-code">`"new version {old_ver} → {new_ver}"`</span>

Template for the commit message that is generated. It accepts two optional tokens, `{old_ver}` and `{new_ver}`, which will represent the package version before and after uv-ship completes, respectively.

For example, this is a message generated by the default setting:  
> new version 1.6.2 → 1.7.0


### `dry-run`
_bool_  : <span class="acc-2-code">`false`</span>

Force all commands into dry-run mode. May be convenient when testing the tool, but can't be overridden in in the CLI and thus needs to be set to `false` for operation.
